Vision works as one of the main abilities for human to perception the real world, the importance needn't to say. The mission of CV(Computer Vision) is to endow computers with close to or even greater ability than human to perception the real world. 

On the other hand, images contains much more information than text, audio and so on which is good for CV task, while how to make full use of these informations becomes a problem. The variations of images bring great challenges to CV tasks. At the same time, data occurs more frequently in the form of image set,  such as surveillance video, multi-view image set and so on. Under these background, image set classification comes into being. Image sets usually contain large amount of images in poor quality. So one of the core tasks of image set classification is overcome the quality problem with advantage of quantity. 

With more than ten years of development, a lot of methods have been propose for this task. According to how to model a image set they can be divided into following categories: 1.Subspace/Manifold base methods, 2.Affine hull base methods, 3.Statistics model based methods, 4.Deep Learning based methods. 5.Others, like Dictionary/Sparse coding based method, Collaborative representation method, etc.

Among the categories listed above, Statistics model based methods attract a lot attention with its excellent performance. This article is also a exploration to this category and following things are included: 1) Exploration of matrix function and manifold optimization consist the second chapter. On the one hand it will introduce basic conception of Riemannian manifold, matrix function as well for later convenience, on the other hand the exploration to matrix funcion and manifold optimization is a common topic which can also be used in other field, the explaination with examples from my research topic will help readers understand the later works, we also hope that it can inspire readers in other similar problems. 2) Partial least square regression on Riemannian manifold extends the common partial least (PLS) method to Riemannian manifold. And in order to overcome the difference between Euclidean space and Riemannian manifold as well as the sparse drawback of samples, multi-tangent space partial least square method is proposed and then our experiment shows that this method reaches or even outperforms the state-of-art performance on the commonly used databases. 3) Low-Rank PSD matrices discriminant learning methods aims at the rank-deficient and high dimension problem of sample covariance model image sets as well as lack of scale information (eigenvalue) in the subspace models, we propose using Low-Rank PSD matrix with label information encoded to model image sets and then a discriminant learning methods is proposed for image set classification task. The final experiments on the commonly used databases support our proposition.